let me just answer this question before
before I tell you what it is um in the
whole history of this channel on only
two occasions just twice
did someone collaborate in a video with
me by reading a book or even let's let's
lower the bar to entry a little bit even
reading a single page of a book so one
of those two collaborations and I use
the word collaboration as you go to see
tremendously generously here one of
those just concerned my interpretation
of a single passage of Aristotle that
you could define as a single page or
less and I appreciated that there was
one guy who took the time to disagree
with me in detail he read the passage he
cited he told me why his interpretation
was the way it was and we looked at it
together we looked at the passage in
Aristotle we looked at the passage in
Herodotus these are ancient Greek
sources and you know what
I still think his interpretation is
wrong I think his interpretation is so
wrong that even if I'm incorrect he
would still be incorrect but
nevertheless there was material there
for me to go on and make another video
discussing Aristotle and the political
implications of a few things that he had
say he contributed to my intellectual
life to have that person in this sense
collaborating just by reading something
I read and sharing their thoughts
sharing their perspective sharing them
tradition the only other time that's
happened in the hoist to this channel
was with another youtuber called Maude
vegan to read the same book I read and
we collaborated doing a book review
discussion video I think it's still an
excellent video on this channel okay so
I've given you the answer the question
and now I'm going to tell you what the
question is people write in to me from
time to time sometimes asking in a
really friendly way how can they join
the discussion how can they debate
something with me how can they
collaborate with me they're unlikely to
use the word collab
right but they want to have some kind of
intellectual discussion with me on or
off this channel whether it's by email
or by Skype or whatever it is they too
have money how can they do that and you
know what sometimes people write in with
a little bit more hostility with a
little bit more of a challenge where
they say they want to criticize my views
or what-have-you and they said what is
the way to do that and the answer is
read the same book I've read make your
own video state your own views state
your own interpretations and I will
respect you even if I completely utterly
disagree with your opinion it's I will
have a basis for respecting you in the
fact that you did the same work that I
did you read the same source and you
brought your own perspective to bear on
it okay I mentioned that question of
interpreting Aristotle I think the other
guy is a hundred percent wrong but I
also think he took the time to do the
reading and even to explain to me what
his interpretation of the reading was
and that I can respect even right I mean
but in some sense disrespect him or
disrespect his opinion or what have you
okay
the various people who have wanted to
quote debate unquote Marxism with me do
you remember even one of them reading a
single page of Karl Marx that I read a
single chapter of that book
can you remember anyone who responded to
my book review of rules for radicals by
Saul Alinsky still a great video give
you the give you the link in the
description well this is this video I
did a book review on that the only
response I got from anywhere on the
political spectrum to my numerous forays
into discussing politics is people
trying to prove their moral superiority
over me people trying to express their
dismissive contempt towards me and never
once taking the time to go to the source
to read the book themselves
to offer their own reviewed off their
own perspective and you know there are
two different things at one I may be
wrong too even if I'm not wrong I may
really benefit from hearing someone
else's perspective imagine if someone
else did the active research and offered
their own opinion on Aristotle Plato
Saul Alinsky's rules for radicals on any
one of these topics that might make my
life better if I make your life more
meaningful just so for the audience and
for the people doing the reading you
know we can kind of collaborate in our
own education and challenge one
another's assumptions even if it just is
that you read the book you read the same
book I read and there was something else
in that book that you felt was really
important that I felt was trivial and
overlooks like in my critique of the
book I maybe emphasized one element you
found another there are ways in which
you know we may be confined some value
some educational value in the conflict
in the clash in the exchange of opinions
but it has to begin with active research
okay so let me just say there is one
extraordinary critic of this channel
there is one extraordinary critic who
was kicked out of my discord forum after
many years of my warmly inviting him to
share his opinions he appeared on the
channel I invited him to do Skype calls
with me and right into expressive
miniature I promoted his channel he has
known each of you for years we had
positive and friendly relations and then
this deteriorated into his bitterly
hating me because he feels that his
perspective on syn Jiang China is
morally superior to my own I am NOT
interested in any debate concerning who
has the moral high ground
nothing could interest me less than
being morally superior to a member of my
audience except perhaps hearing a member
of my audience expressed to me how a
morally superior they feel they are to
me
of no educational value and it's tragic
that right now a great deal of politics
revolves around this kind of posture
right I have one book right here and
there are two more books coming in the
mail on the history of sin Jiang and
Central Asia in a relationship between
China and Central Asia 1864 to present
if you want to challenge my view on the
history and politics of sin check you've
got to do the research if you do the
research and you're wrong you'll be
delighted to discover you're wrong you
think well how delightful there's a
whole lot here I didn't know there's a
whole new perspective maybe on the
history of China maybe on the history of
India maybe the history of Iran the
history of Russia and Central Asia
involves all these Wow
there were a lot of things I was wrong
about and by studying this chapter of
history of really challenged my own
assumptions I've learned something new
when you do the research and you're
wrong you get to be delighted to
discover that you're wrong and if you do
the research and you're right then that
will only you know deepen your awareness
of how important it is to be right about
something on the basis of real empirical
knowledge and not just on a smug sense
of moral superiority over others who
disagree with you ok guys so in the past
if you can watch the channel for many
many years I used to make a big effort
to inform my audience and inform our
patron subscribers but what I was
currently reading what I was currently
working on in my limited time whether
that you know were ancient Greek or
Chinese or you know books on politics in
history in English and I really made a
big effort to try to invite people to
collaborate positively whether through
Skype conversations and I gave up I
failed
or we could turn around and say my
audience let me down let me know
sometimes but recently a few people have
asked me how can they cross sword
with me all right and this is my answer
whether your motivation is that you want
to be my friend
you want to be my colleague or in some
sense maybe you want to be my enemy
that's fine too
here on YouTube I could use more
meaningful conflict with other people
who are doing research whether by
philosophy politics history languages I
would be delighted to have a meaningful
contrast of opinion with someone who
despises me all right
but we're not gonna debate your moral
superiority over me that is of
absolutely no substance and absolutely
no interest we have to have a discourse
about politics that begins from the
facts
proceeds from the facts to the facts and
concludes with the facts anything else I
see as merely an exercise in ego and
self-indulgence and let's face it
whether we're talking about far-off
cynjohn China or you know Vietnam to an
extent that is frankly terrifying to me
what I see is white Western people with
comfortable lives looking out the
history of the world to find symbols for
their own frustrated ambitions I see
white Western middle class people
looking at the Syrian civil war for some
kind of symbol of their own frustrated
ideals to have an anarchist revolution
and they managed to find a bunch of
Kurds members of the Kurdish ethnic
minority who in some the sense call
themselves socialists or feminists or
anarchists well at the same time
remaining devout Muslims and they cling
on to this as a symbol of their own
aspirations and
as soon as you have that emotional
attachment
I think there's then a great reluctance
to learn truth from facts because the
more you learn about you know empirical
reality on the ground the more the human
reality with the dirt under the
fingernails warts and all as we used to
say in English you know the more it
ceases to be a symbol of an ideal the
more it becomes just another sad
reflection of human nature in all its
imperfections all right there is no
anarchist utopia in rojava
Syria all right the Kurds are no more a
perfect emblem for anarchism than they
are for socialism than they are for
Islam itself frankly they're you know
genuinely pathetic nationalist
independence movement who have now been
losing a war for a remarkable number of
years and you have been all too willing
to work as agents for any foreign power
in any foreign intelligence agency that
was going to support them in their war
against the government of Syria the
government of Turkey so on and so forth
it's a truly tragic and and pathetic
tale and you know what the people of
Vietnam were no more a symbol of
anti-americanism or anti imperialism or
of a better alternative to capitalism
many the people of Vietnam had their own
tragic historical struggle first against
the French and then against the
Americans that in case you haven't heard
failed to produce a utopia after the
American army packed up and went home
alright I said on this YouTube channel
many years ago that steel sharpens steel
if we can take the time to come on
YouTube and really be honest with one
another really be real with one another
if we can share what it is we've read
what is we're researching what it is we
care about and if we can share our
doubts as well
then you know we're all going to be made
sharper by this interchange like steel
sharpening steel I really had the hope
that YouTube could be the sort of
meeting of the minds that I find Western
academic colloquia always fail to be
because you know nobody here is trying
to flatter the professor nobody's trying
to line up research funding and there
aren't these other factors militating
against real honesty and you know it's
not the case that the author of this
book is gonna be supervising my PhD
thesis so I have to flatter him if I'm
unimpressed with this book about the
history of San Jang of China I can come
here and say to you well I started
reading this and this really let me down
if I'm disciplined at a flatter Polybius
an ancient author let alone a living
author right and by the way brief brief
digression had a professor in here in
University of Victoria and I paid quite
a lot of money for his book was then a
new publication and when I told him as
politely as well this this book is
really not very impressive I could
repeat exactly what I said but I said
very politely that the book was a
disappointment hmm he was devastated he
got angry he got upset and he never
spoke to me again he's never even
replied to an email and it's to me
that's very very alien but it's
completely endemic to the the hothouse
of Western academia look why did you
publish this book if you didn't want
anyone to dare to criticize it you could
have locked it in a desk drawer or said
it should only be published after your
deceased you published this book it's a
book about politics you know what and
other experts and other interested
people feel they're gonna read it and
gonna find fault with it and your book
criticizes other people for their
political views too so why should you be
above reproach why should you know be
criticized I mean there was a time when
I thought
Wow what we've invented here on YouTube
with the ability to pause and the
ability to edit and you know like if you
embarrass yourself you can just hit
delete and record a second version of
the same monologue there are all these
advantages over standing and presenting
a paper at a conference in an academic
context and what you want to talk about
anarchist ideal how about the total lack
of any authoritarian structure here
right when when people present their
views in an active and an academic
context they fear the authority of their
professors they fear hey this guy can
give me a b-minus if I don't repeat
exactly his opinions about politics if I
challenge him or if I say his book was
poorly written or was disappointing
there in theory it could end your
academic career but it could at least
damage you and so on it's amazing how
the authority of the academic hierarchy
manages to pervert and silenced kind of
every possible discussion of politics on
a university campus all right I had hope
that YouTube could be for you and me for
us for my generation a new kind of
colloquium where we could share our
readings share our research share our
real emotions share our real experiences
and also share our doubts because the
one thing I resented most about being in
formal academic presentations
conferences in colloquial was that
everyone was terrified to say those
three words I don't know and all the
research worth doing in the beginning
and middle and end is guided by what we
call research questions to have a real
research question you've got to have the
honesty to say to yourself and say to
others I don't know this remains unknown
I'm trying to take something unknown and
try and couldn't even get people to it
you couldn't even get people to but they
hadn't read a book when they hadn't read
a book you have a whole situation
graduate students fronting on knowing
things they don't know and I've been
read books they haven't read people
pretending they've been places they
haven't been people pretending they
speak languages they don't speak endemic
to academia all right I used to believe
that YouTube could really be something
better for you and me here and now with
a cost of tuition
it's $0 and it can be the only thing
lacking is you hate you and you and you
have to step up you don't get you don't
get any reward for reading Polybius all
right you don't get any reward for
reading Cicero
you don't get any reward for reading
Aristotle except you get to wake up in
the morning and be that person you
aspire to be that you made the decision
to stop playing video games hit the
books and take responsibility to do
active research so you can have an
informed opinion that you decided you
know what I'm tired of basing my
opinions on what they say on Fox News or
what it says in The Guardian newspaper
or the knee-jerk reaction of the
left-wing attacking Fox News or the
knee-jerk reaction of the right-wing
attacking The Guardian I actually
decided to learn truth from facts so I
can become the kind of person whose
opinions are really substantive and
nuanced based on empirical experience
research okay that's what you get you
know what you can do it alone
or you can do it with me right here on
YouTube through this wonderful 21st
century para social experience at your
own pace at your own time you can hit
pause you could hit rewind you can hit
delete and you can record it all over
again you get to be your own editor okay
if you go into ten conferences in person
you don't and as I said in more than
five years only one person ever read a
book in response to my invitation to
participate and what it is I'm trying to
do here intellectually and politically
there's an open spot on the list for
person number two it could be you
[Music]